>> Nina Zakharenko: Python doesn't really
know how to represent this generator
in any other way.
It doesn't know what's in it until
you start looping through it.
The other cool thing about generators is
they don't necessarily have
to have an end, right?
The structure is not in memory, so
you can kind of be a little
loosey-goosey about it.
A good way to think about generator
is the list has all the items in it.
But a generator,
it only knows where it is right now, and
it knows the very next step.
It has no idea what happened in the past.
It's got some weird amnesia.
And it doesn't really know where
it's going in the future besides for
the very next step.
Does that make a little bit more sense?
Okay, we talked a little bit
about slicing yesterday,
but slicing is a way to create
sublists from larger lists.
So let's say I had my_string.
So a string is kind of
considered a sequence in Python.
>> Nina Zakharenko: What
will my_string(0) return?
>> Speaker 2: 'H'.
>> Nina Zakharenko: 'H'.
>> Nina Zakharenko: We also
looked at negative slicing.
What will my_string[-1] return?
>> Speaker 3: !.
>> Nina Zakharenko: !, but
we also learned that we can provide
two numbers into this range.
So let's just say I wanted
to return the string hello.
I can say zero, one, two, three, four.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And I would put
in position 5 because just like
range,
>> Nina Zakharenko: These
are the first four
characters just like range.
The second argument to
the subscript it's exclusive, so
it does not include the character
that you put in there.
We also know that when you're working with
either the first value of the list or
the last value of the list,
that the 0 is optional.
It gives us the same thing.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So we can put
any numbers in here that we want.
It'll give us a new copy of
those values from the string.
So doing it with a list,
>> Nina Zakharenko: Renders
the same results.
Say I have a list of four items,
what we'll name 0 return?
>> Speaker 3: Nina.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Nina, and names[-1].
>> Speaker 4: Jimmy.
>> Speaker 5: None.
Nope, Jimmy.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Jimmy,
it's the last item.
What if I wanted the first
two items in the list?
What would I put for
my second range variable?
>> Speaker 3: 1?
>> Nina Zakharenko: First two items.
>> Speaker 2: 3?
>> Nina Zakharenko: Would be 3.
>> Speaker 4: 2?
>> Nina Zakharenko: I'm sorry,
2, whoever corrected me,
you were right because list
indexes start at 0, okay.
And is this 0 optional or not?
>> Speaker 4: It is.
>> Nina Zakharenko: It is, okay.
If I wanted to go to
the end of the string,
I would start at 0, 1, 2, and
I would go to,
>> Nina Zakharenko: I would go to 4.
So that's the end of my list,
that's the length of it.
Just like with 0, is this 4 optional?
>> Speaker 2: Yes.
>> Nina Zakharenko: It is, cuz we're
going all the way to the end, okay.
>> Nina Zakharenko: One of the cool
useful uses for this substring, so
if we have a list, let's say my list
names, and I reassign it to new_names.
If I append a new value here,
is it gonna change my names list?
>> Nina Zakharenko: Will it?
>> Speaker 3: Yes.
>> Nina Zakharenko: It will, right,
cuz all I did is I changed the label here.
I didn't make a new list, right?
I just told Python these
things share a name now.
They're pointed at the same thing, so-
>> Speaker 4: Can you print out names too?
>> Nina Zakharenko: It's the same.
So if I quickly wanted to
make a copy of my list so
that I can do some operations on it and
not modify the original,
let's say I had my list of names here.
>> Nina Zakharenko: If we start at
the beginning of a sequence and
we wanna take a slice, is 0 optional?
>> Speaker 4: Yes.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yes, okay,
if we go to the end of the sequence,
is the last number,
that last value, is that optional?
It is, so if I put just the : here,
I'll get a copy of my list.
And now I can say, new_names is
equal to a copy of my names list.
Sorry, we got news_names but bear with me.
If I append something to this now,
>> Nina Zakharenko: Will
my names list change?
No, but
my news_names I modified that, right?
>> Nina Zakharenko: Okay, let's talk
about negative indexing a little bit.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
I had my_string here, "Hello World!".
>> Nina Zakharenko: If I do
a negative index [-1] what do I get?
>> Speaker 5: Exclamation point?
>> Nina Zakharenko: What
about negative index [-2]?
>> Speaker 5: d.
>> Nina Zakharenko: It's a d, right.
See where I'm getting here?
>> Speaker 5: Kinda like it's circular.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yeah, so
-1 goes to the first last item,
-2, kind of etc, etc.
You can get kinda interesting here.
You can go from the end, the length of
the string, to the fourth from the end
and end up with some subset of the string.
You can do the same thing for lists.
You kinda rarely want to get too
tricky with the substrings because
explicit is better than implicit.
You want to be clear.
But it's available to you, and
you might see this in Python code.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Okay,
one last argument.
Let's say I had a list of
the numbers from 0 to 9.
I can quickly build that list with range,
right, and
pass it into list and just looking at
our list, the numbers from 0 to 9.
>> Nina Zakharenko: We know that
this will give us the whole list.
There's one additional of
third argument to step, and
you can kinda think about it like range.
So the first argument to range,
the optional first argument, is the start.
The second argument to range is the end.
What's the third optional
argument to range?
>> Speaker 2: Step.
>> Speaker 5: Interval.
>> Nina Zakharenko: It's a step,
yeah, interval or a step.
So I can do the same thing here and
say, just give me every other one.
>> Nina Zakharenko: One little other bit
of trickery here, what if the step was -1,
what do you think that would do?
>> Speaker 5: Tell it backwards?
>> Nina Zakharenko: That's right, yeah.
So going through the whole list,
stepping from the end to the beginning.
So just a little bit of trickery there.
Let's say I wanted to,
>> Nina Zakharenko: Go
start from the first value and
let's look at my list again here.
I wanted to start from the first value,
go to the sixth one,
and then skip every other.
I could use all three of
those arguments to range.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And remember that
you can slice to get a subset of items
from any data type that
maintains an order.
So that would be your list and your tuple.
Can you do this sort of sub sequencing
with a dictionary or a set?
No, right, why?
>> Speaker 2: Unordered.
>> Nina Zakharenko: They're unordered,
right?
So for the data structure,
if you can't subscript it by an index,
and remember,
you can do this with the dictionary,
only if the dictionary has a key of 0,
so that doesn't count.
If you can do this to the data type,
then you can take a slice of it.